AS the Union leaves the festivities of the Lunar New Year and prepare for this week's Union Day, which marks the Peace of Singapore 50 years ago, ending the 1948-1972 Malaiyan Wars and unshering in the era of rapid industrialization, questions are being asked: what, exactly, have we accomplished?

PM Tjung Ban Hok's upcoming State of the Union speech might offer a clue. Our sources talk of a lengthy list being assembled in the capital Singapore, detailing almost every accomplishment made throughout the 63 years of uninterrupted, democratically elected PAP government, a competent rule that has guided the 259 million Malaiyans into growing the great Malaiyan Growth Machine into the world's fourth largest economy, larger than even its former colonizer and current titular patron within the Commonwealth—the United Kingdom.

Indeed, under the pragmatic, wise leadership of the late PM Lee Kuan Yew and his three generations of meritocratic successors, the Union carefully managed the largest and most rapid lifting of people out of poverty in history.

They have catapulted the country to become a member of the Japan-led A9, Asia's leading countries and industrial exports superpowers, that supply the world with the latest smartphones, semiconductors, automobiles, and almost every kind of consumer goods. There is not a single person in this world that has never seen the label, "Made in Malaiya".

This immense economic growth, averaging at 10% in the booming 80s-90s and 7% today, is shared not only by Union citizens formerly oppressed under the heels of the lazy bumiputra sultans and adipatis, but also by the 64 million formerly starving Chinese migrants and their far more numerous descendants. In a period of five decades, they arrived by boats and feet into the Union, escaping the sheer horrors and insanity of collapsed Maoist China.

These lowly migrants then settled in mass, bringing industrial agriculture and railways to the harsh untamed lands of Sumatra and Borneo. Assisted by the Union's land reform of forcibly buying up the lands of feudal Malay sultans and aristocrats and redistributing them to the impoverished majority tenant farmers population and migrants, the Malaiyans built and grew for themselves immense wealth unthinkable to seven generations of their ancestors.

The muddy swamps of Dumai, Singkawang, and Kwantan have been replaced by dense banking and pharmaceutical towers, elevated Maglev trains, and an average internet speed of 1 Gbps. 95% of the malaria-infested rainforests of inner Borneo and Sumatra have been cleared to make room for millions of hectares of high-intensity farmlands, providing food and living space for the Union's highly urbanized population.

From the coasts of Kelantan and Malacca strait, to the valleys of inner Minangkabau, to the rice fields and cities of northern Java, to the endless plantations of Borneo, all are densely overpopulated to the brink with hundreds of millions of Chinese-speaking Chinese.

Whether a man is a Chinese, Malay, Javanese, Sundanese, or native jungle people has became increasingly irrelevant, all of them indistinguishable in the many jam-packed assembly lines as Malaiya turned into the "factory of the world", along with the rest of the A9: Japan, India, Korea, Indochina, Maharlika, China, Thailand, and Burma.

Global megacorporations, domestically built and owned by Malaiyans, grew rapidly, plowing its fangs in the fight for dominance over the world's electronics and industrial technology against competing global giants of Apple, Samsung, and Toyota. Garage geniuses-turned-billionaires in Kundian and Malauka churn out revolutionary mobile and internet platforms, upending the world through ride-hailing, e-commerce, fintech, and video-swiping social media monopolies, with user bases of billions of people.

This successes is inseparable from the far-sighted national industrial policies of the late LKY government, which has resulted in Malaiya producing 45% of the entire planet's semiconductors supply, ferociously competing with Taiwan while providing an unchallenged competitive edge for the Union's domestic electronics and industrial manufacturing industries.

Malaiyan cultural influence quickly found its way into the entire planet, with Malaiyan idol pop stars, sinetrons (drama series), music, movies, hot donghua (Chinese animation) characters, boy bands, and V-Tubers rapidly colonizing the phone and laptop screens of America and Europe, ferociously competing with the likes of K-POP and anime.

Similarly, much progress has been made in national and public security. From the bloody days of the 70s, violent crime, corruption, mafia operations, and especially drug trafficking have plunged to the bottom of the chart.

All thanks to a combination of both a strong welfare apparatus and a firm, increasingly tech-based, crusade against crime. A heritage of Victorian-era British colonial policy to deter crime through bankrupting fines, caning, and hanging, that has reduced the number of annual death penalty sentences to only 7133 last year, the lowest in a decade.

Despite the various military threats within and abroad, the PAP government was wise to not fall into the trap of extreme militarism. Instead, the Union opted to pacify the dangers against it through jobs, education, trade, and investments, maintaining a small yet highly specialized force to surgically keep the peace while relying on its alliance with A9, the US, the UK, and India to fend off global Salafi and Marxist intrusions.

Indeed Malaiyan foreign aid and financial interests has been the single most important force shaping the geopolitics and security framework of maritime Southeast Asia, its cheap loans and infrastructure deals too irresistible for even the most insane of local tinpot dictators.

Racial tension has been suppressed through the incredibly strict hate speech laws and the affordable mass public housing program to eradicate ghettos, by forcing most of Malaiya's 259 million citizens to live on racially mixed neighborhoods. Indeed the Union's public housing program is by all metrics both the largest and of the highest quality in the world, practically eliminating visible homelessness while resulting in Malaiyans having the world's highest rate of home ownership.

The entire coasts of Malacca and Carimata straits to the northern Java coasts and its hinterlands are completely covered with ultra-dense, mixed-used, walkable, cyberpunk ocean of 50-story tall residential megatowers. Maglev tracks and public parks sprawl the ground and the air; the heavens are covered by densely packed corporate mega-headquarters that block the skies from sight, its surfaces covered with neon lamps and advertisement billboards of Vocaloid anime idols.

This constant progress stands in stark contrast to the rural Islamist and communist basket cases that packed the rest of the Malay archipelago, where dengue and malaria, pirates, and drug cartels run rampant. Where the people are kept dim and stagnant in rice fields and mineral mines. Where the bright and hard-working depart, knowing full well that the Union, not their birthplace, is the only place where they might have a hope to build themselves a brighter future.

But it will be prudent to go back to where it all began, and see how a colonial jungle nation can rise to become one of the world's great power.
<ds>118f7c1ef144bd9630cd3035eb8a394ca2554801676781f9df22ff605633b9f2b5f0cd26e84e3e5c04c441b0e823ee0ab07ca4254b019161a6ebc69cb75addf019506edc73e261adf1c3fdf8d9cf63cb605406f5a68ceb1eca0d3b54db63054b105bcb88a32aae9e99cc82ea105e09f4eae163b793af97b438b46e95766954d0</ds>